Hey team, curious about your thoughts on a potential op-geth change for `debug_execution_witness` API:

**The background**
I'm working on `Remove op-geth hash Scheme dependency` project where we want to standardize preimage data retrieval for op-program and kona to a new `debug_execution_witness` API instead of relying on geth's `debug_dbGet` endpoint where it is only supported by geth hash scheme nodes. The idea is to implement `debug_execution_witness` API in both reth & geth so that both op-program and kona can choose the preferred execution client to retrieve the data from. 

**The problem**
It turns out that geth & reth (or all the EL in general) have no standardized the order of operation for updating MPT tries, and the execution witness generated could be different if the order of operation is not the same. Currently reth sorts the keys before applying trie deletions while geth does not do that, this means that the witness generated by geth and reth are incompatible with each other and cannot be used interchangeably.

This is a known problem that is proposed by Peter from geth team from his [Stateless Ethereum proposal](https://gist.github.com/karalabe/47c906f0ab4fdc5b8b791b74f084e5f9#witness-gathering), and quote

```
Before the block is finalized and the final root hash can be computed, the self-destructed accounts and deleted slots are removed from the tries. This can end up with trie paths being collapsed form full nodes to short nodes, resulting in sibling trie nodes to be accessed for the hashing. Trie insertions that are on close paths might also interfere, causing different siblings to be accessed based on whether delete or insert happens first. To make this part of the witness deterministic, clients need to apply deletions first and updates afterwards (I think it produces smaller witnesses than other way around (applying updates and then deletes)).
```

**The proposed change**
What we want eventually is a way to standardize this behavior across different ELs and from current investigation, however, I'm wondering if we'd be open to the idea of updating geth to sort keys before applying deletions on accounts & slots? This way we could make sure that the execution witness generated from geth & reth are compatible and used interchangeably, and ultimately unblock `Remove op-geth hash Scheme dependency` project.

**Questions for you**
1. Curious if you'd be open to the idea of sorting keys before applying deletions?
2. If yes, then would love to draw from your expertise to see how invasive the change might be? i.e. is it even possible?

Thank you! :pray: 